# Read-01: Introduction to React and Components 

***


# Component <br>

>*A component is a modular, portable, replaceable, and reusable set of well-defined functionality that encapsulates its implementation and exporting it as a higher-level interface.*


## What is a Component? <br>

*A component is a **software object**, intended to **interact with other components**, **encapsulating** certain functionality or a **set of functionalities**,. It has an **obviously defined interface** and **conforms to a recommended behavior** common to all components within an architecture.*



## What are the charactistics of a component?
1.***Reusability***
 - Components are usually designed to be reused in different situations in different applications. However, some components may be designed for a specific task.

2.***Replaceable***
 - Components may be freely substituted with other similar components.

3.***Not context specific*** 
- Components are designed to operate in different environments and contexts.

4.***Extensible***
- A component can be extended from existing components to provide new behavior.

5.***Encapsulated***
- A component depicts the interfaces, which allow the caller to use its functionality, and do not expose details of the internal processes or any internal variables or state.

6.***Independent*** 
 - Components are designed to have minimal dependencies on other components.

## What are the advantages of using component based architecture?
***Ease of deployment ***
- As new compatible versions become available, it is easier to replace existing versions with no impact on the other components or the system as a whole.

***Reduced cost***
- The use of third-party components allows you to spread the cost of development and maintenance.

***Ease of development***
-  Components implement well-known interfaces to provide defined functionality, allowing development without impacting other parts of the system.

***Reusable***
- The use of reusable components means that they can be used to spread the development and maintenance cost across several applications or systems.

***Modification of technical complexity***
- A component modifies the complexity through the use of a component container and its services.

***Reliability***
- The overall system reliability increases since the reliability of each individual component enhances the reliability of the whole system via reuse.

**System maintenance and evolution**
 - Easy to change and update the implementation without affecting the rest of the system.

**Independent** 
- Independency and flexible connectivity of components. Independent development of components by different group in parallel. Productivity for the software development and future software development.

***

# What is props short for?

“Props” is a special keyword in React, which stands for properties and is being used for passing data from one component to another.

# How are props used in React?
>React Props are like function arguments in JavaScript and attributes in HTML.
To send props into a component, use the same syntax as HTML attributes:

- Firstly, define an attribute and its value(data)
- Then pass it to child component(s) by using Props
- Finally, render the Props Data

*we have a **ParentComponent** including another component (**child**):*

- We already know that we can assign attributes and values to HTML tags: <br>
`<a href="www.google.com">Click here to visit Google</a>;`
- Likewise, we can do the same for React components. We can define our own attributes & assign values with **interpolation { }**:<br>
`<ChildComponent someAttribute={value} anotherAttribute={value}/>`
- Here I’m declaring a “text” attribute to the ChildComponent and then assign a string value: **I’m the 1st child**.<br>
 `<ChildComponent text={“I’m the 1st child”} />`

- Now the ChildComponent has a property and a value. Next, we need to pass it via Props. <br>
***2nd Step: Passing Data using Props*** <br>
OK, now let’s take the “I’m the 1st child!” string and pass it by using props.
Passing props is very simple. Like we pass arguments to a function, we pass props into a React component and props bring all the necessary data.
Arguments passed to a function:<br>
```const addition = (firstNum, secondNum) => {  
  return firstNum + secondNum; 
};
>Arguments passed to a React component:
const ChildComponent = (props) => {  
  return <p>I'm the 1st child!</p>; 
};
```
***Final Step: Rendering Props Data*** <br>
Alright so far, we have created an attribute and its value, then we passed it through props but we still can’t see it because we haven’t rendered it yet.
Prop is an Object
In the final step, we will render the props object by using string interpolation:
{props}
But first log props to console and see what it shows:<br>
`console.log(props);`



# What is the flow of props?
Props are being passed to components like function arguments <br>
Props can only be passed to components in one-way (parent to child)

***
# Props are Read-Only
**Whether you declare a component as a function or a class, it must never modify its own props. Consider this sum function:**
```
function sum(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
```
Such functions are called “pure” because they do not attempt to change their inputs, and always return the same result for the same inputs.

In contrast, this function is impure because it changes its own input:
```
function withdraw(account, amount) {
  account.total -= amount;
}
```
React is pretty flexible but it has a single strict rule:

>All React components must act like pure functions with respect to their props.

- **Of course, application UIs are dynamic and change over time.** 
## “state”.
- **State allows React components to change their output over time in response to user actions, network responses, and anything else, without violating this rule.**


***

## Reference

[Component](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/software_architecture_design/component_based_architecture.htm)


[Props](https://itnext.io/what-is-props-and-how-to-use-it-in-react-da307f500da0#:~:text=%E2%80%9CProps%E2%80%9D%20is%20a%20special%20keyword,way%20from%20parent%20to%20child)


[ Home ](../README.md)
