# Read-05:Putting it all together

***
## How would you break a mock into a component heirarchy?

-  draw boxes around every component (and subcomponent) in the mock and give them all names

## What is the `single responsibility principle` and how does it apply to components?

 - component should ideally only do one thing. If it ends up growing, it should be decomposed into smaller subcomponents.

## What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?

- renders your data model, you’ll want to build components that reuse other components and pass data using props

# Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?

## What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?

<br>

1. Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it probably isn’t state.
2. Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it probably isn’t state.
3. Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component? If so, it isn’t state.
<br>

## How can you identify where state needs to live?


**For each piece of state in your application:**

- Identify every component that renders something based on that state.


- Find a common owner component (a single component above all the components that need the state in the hierarchy).


- Either the common owner or another component higher up in the hierarchy should own the state.


- If you can’t find a component where it makes sense to own the state, create a new component solely for holding the state and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common owner component.

**Let’s run through this strategy for our application:**

- `ProductTable` needs to filter the product list based on state and `SearchBar` needs to display the search text and checked state.

- The common owner component is `FilterableProductTable`.

- It conceptually makes sense for the filter text and checked value to live in `FilterableProductTable`


Cool, so we’ve decided that our state lives in FilterableProductTable. First, add an instance property `this.state = {filterText: '', inStockOnly: false}` to FilterableProductTable’s `constructor` to reflect the initial state of your application. Then, pass `filterText` and `inStockOnly` to ProductTable and SearchBar as a prop. Finally, use these props to filter the rows in `ProductTable` and set the values of the form fields in `SearchBar`.

You can start seeing how your application will behave: set `filterText` to `"ball"` and refresh your app. You’ll see that the data table is updated correctly.




***

## Reference

[]()


[thinking-in-react](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html)


[ Home ](../README.md)
