# Read-09:FUNCTIONAL PROGRAMMING

***


# FUNCTIONAL PROGRAMMING
When a function is built for one thing, and the whole program consists of multiple functions like this... this results in a side-effect-free code.
A **pure function** is one that gives the same result if given the same argument, and does not have any observable side-effects. If the function relies on an external variable that might change... to be pure, the function must have a parameter for that variable to be passed.
Any function that relies on a random number generator cannot be pure.
Side effect of a function include modifying a global object or parameter passed by reference. Modifying global objects can be called *mutability*, which is discouraged.
When a function is pure it is easier to test without having to mock possibilities.
**Immutable** data cannot be changed after its creation... instead of changing it, you create a new object with the new value. Usually a `for` loop is used for that.
**Recursion** is when a function calls itself creating a `for` loop, as such...
```javascript
let list = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
let accumulator = 0;
function sum(list, accumulator) {
  if (list.length == 0) {
    return accumulator;
  }
  return sum(list.slice(1), accumulator + list[0]);
}
sum(list, accumulator); // 15
list; // [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
accumulator; // 0
```
This will allow iterating while keeping variables *immutable*.
*Function composition or chaining* means that the result of each function will be used as input for the next function without modifying the original input
```javascript
const string = " I will be a url slug   ";
const slugify = string =>
  string
    .toLowerCase()
    .trim()
    .split(" ")
    .join("-");
slugify(string); // i-will-be-a-url-slug
```
Search more on **referential transparency** and **memoization**. 
---
**Functions** as first-class entities can:
- refer to it from constants and variables
- pass it as a parameter to other functions
- return it as result from other functions
The idea is to treat functions like data. So, functions can be combined to create new functions... such as
```javascript
const sum = (a, b) => a + b;
const subtraction = (a, b) => a - b;
const doubleOperator = (f, a, b) => f(a, b) * 2;
doubleOperator(sum, 3, 1); // 8
doubleOperator(subtraction, 3, 1); // 4
```
**Higher order functions** (such as the doubleOperator above) can:
- take one or more functions as arguments, or
- return a function as its result
When a function relies on an argument passed by another we can use `this` like this
```javascript
function smaller(number) {
  return number < this;
}
function filterArray(x, listOfNumbers) {
  return listOfNumbers.filter(smaller, x);
}
let numbers = [10, 9, 8, 2, 7, 5, 1, 3, 0];
filterArray(3, numbers); // [2, 1, 0]
```
---

***

## Reference



[Concepts of Functional Programming in Javascript](https://medium.com/the-renaissance-developer/concepts-of-functional-programming-in-javascript-6bc84220d2aa)


[ Home ](../README.md)
