# Read-06:NODE.JS

***
# Introduction to Node.js

## What is node.js?

**Node.js is an event-based, non-blocking, asynchronous I/O runtime that uses Google’s V8 JavaScript engine and libuv library.**

## In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?

**V8 is Google’s open source high-performance JavaScript and WebAssembly engine, written in C++. It is used in Chrome and in Node.js, among others**

## What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?
**Javascript runtime refers to where your javascript code is executed when you run it. That said, javascript can be executed on google chrome, in which case your javascript runtime is v8, if on mozilla - it is spidermonkey, if IE - then its chakra and if on node, again its v8,check this Explination [link](https://vahid.blog/post/2021-03-21-understanding-the-javascript-runtime-environment-and-dom-nodes/jsRuntimeEnvironment.pdf)**

## What is npm?

**npm is the world's largest Software Registry.**

## What version of node are you running on your machine?

`v10.24.1`

## What version of npm are you running on your machine?

`6.14.12`

## What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?

`npm install -g jshint`

## What is node used for?
 
 **installing (via npm) and running (via Node) various build tools — designed to automate the process of developing a modern JavaScript application.**

# 6 Reasons for Pair Programming

## What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?
1. Greater efficiency
2. Engaged collaboration
3. Learning from fellow students
4. Social skills
5. Job interview readiness
6. Work environment readiness

## In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?

**Job interview readiness**,refers to it\'s ability to work with and learn from others and stellar communication skills are as (or more!) important to a company than specific technical skills. 

## How does pair programming work?

While there are many different styles, pair programming commonly involves two roles: the Driver and the Navigator. The Driver is the programmer who is typing and the only one whose hands are on the keyboard. Handling the “mechanics” of coding, the Driver manages the text editor, switching files, version control, and—of course writing—code. The Navigator uses their words to guide the Driver but does not provide any direct input to the computer. The Navigator thinks about the big picture, what comes next, how an algorithm might be converted in to code, while scanning for typos or bugs. The Navigator might also utilize their computer as a second screen to look up solutions and documentation, but should not be writing any code.


***

## Reference

[stack overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30838412/what-is-javascript-runtime)


[Node](https://www.sitepoint.com/an-introduction-to-node-js/)

[pair programming](https://www.codefellows.org/blog/6-reasons-for-pair-programming/)

[ Home ](../README.md)
