# Read-08:APIs

***


# RESTful web API design

## What does REST stand for?

**In 2000, Roy Fielding proposed Representational State Transfer (REST) as an architectural approach to designing web services. REST is an architectural style for building distributed systems based on hypermedia. REST is independent of any underlying protocol and is not necessarily tied to HTTP. However, most common REST API implementations use HTTP as the application protocol, and this guide focuses on designing REST APIs for HTTP.**

## REST APIs are designed around a **resources**.


## What is an identifer of a resource? Give an example.
A resource has an identifier, which is a URI that uniquely identifies that resource. For example, the URI for a particular customer order might be:
```https://adventure-works.com/orders/1```

**The HTTP protocol defines a number of methods that assign semantic meaning to a request. The common HTTP methods used by most RESTful web APIs are:**

**GE** retrieves a representation of the resource at the specified URI. The body of the response message contains the details of the requested resource.
**POST** creates a new resource at the specified URI. The body of the request message provides the details of the new resource. Note that **POST** can also be used to trigger operations that don't actually create resources.
**PUT** either creates or replaces the resource at the specified URI. The body of the request message specifies the resource to be created or updated.
PATCH performs a partial update of a resource. The request body specifies the set of changes to apply to the resource.
DELETE removes the resource at the specified **URI**.
The effect of a specific request should depend on whether the resource is a collection or an individual item. The following table summarizes the common conventions adopted by most RESTful implementations using the e-commerce example. Not all of these requests might be implemented—it depends on the specific scenario.

DEFINE API OPERATIONS IN TERMS OF HTTP METHODS
Resource	POST	GET	PUT	DELETE
/customers	Create a new customer	Retrieve all customers	Bulk update of customers	Remove all customers
/customers/1	Error	Retrieve the details for customer 1	Update the details of customer 1 if it exists	Remove customer 1
/customers/1/orders	Create a new order for customer 1	Retrieve all orders for customer 1	Bulk update of orders for customer 1	Remove all orders for customer 1
The differences between POST, PUT, and PATCH can be confusing.

A POST request creates a resource. The server assigns a URI for the new resource, and returns that URI to the client. In the REST model, you frequently apply POST requests to collections. The new resource is added to the collection. A POST request can also be used to submit data for processing to an existing resource, without any new resource being created.

A PUT request creates a resource or updates an existing resource. The client specifies the URI for the resource. The request body contains a complete representation of the resource. If a resource with this URI already exists, it is replaced. Otherwise a new resource is created, if the server supports doing so. PUT requests are most frequently applied to resources that are individual items, such as a specific customer, rather than collections. A server might support updates but not creation via PUT. Whether to support creation via PUT depends on whether the client can meaningfully assign a URI to a resource before it exists. If not, then use POST to create resources and PUT or PATCH to update.

A PATCH request performs a partial update to an existing resource. The client specifies the URI for the resource. The request body specifies a set of changes to apply to the resource. This can be more efficient than using PUT, because the client only sends the changes, not the entire representation of the resource. Technically PATCH can also create a new resource (by specifying a set of updates to a "null" resource), if the server supports this.

PUT requests must be idempotent. If a client submits the same PUT request multiple times, the results should always be the same (the same resource will be modified with the same values). POST and PATCH requests are not guaranteed to be idempotent.

Conform to HTTP semantics
This section describes some typical considerations for designing an API that conforms to the HTTP specification. However, it doesn't cover every possible detail or scenario. When in doubt, consult the HTTP specifications.

Media types
As mentioned earlier, clients and servers exchange representations of resources. For example, in a POST request, the request body contains a representation of the resource to create. In a GET request, the response body contains a representation of the fetched resource.

In the HTTP protocol, formats are specified through the use of media types, also called MIME types. For non-binary data, most web APIs support JSON (media type = application/json) and possibly XML (media type = application/xml).

The Content-Type header in a request or response specifies the format of the representation. Here is an example of a POST request that includes JSON data:

**HTTP**


```POST https://adventure-works.com/orders HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Content-Length: 57

{"Id":1,"Name":"Gizmo","Category":"Widgets","Price":1.99}
If the server doesn't support the media type, it should return HTTP status code 415 (Unsupported Media Type).
```

A client request can include an Accept header that contains a list of media types the client will accept from the server in the response message. For example:

**HTTP**


```GET https://adventure-works.com/orders/2 HTTP/1.1```
Accept: application/json
If the server cannot match any of the media type(s) listed, it should return HTTP status code 406 (Not Acceptable).

## GET methods
A successful GET method typically returns HTTP status code 200 (OK). If the resource cannot be found, the method should return 404 (Not Found).

## POST methods
If a POST method creates a new resource, it returns HTTP status code 201 (Created). The URI of the new resource is included in the Location header of the response. The response body contains a representation of the resource.

If the method does some processing but does not create a new resource, the method can return HTTP status code 200 and include the result of the operation in the response body. Alternatively, if there is no result to return, the method can return HTTP status code 204 (No Content) with no response body.

If the client puts invalid data into the request, the server should return HTTP status code 400 (Bad Request). The response body can contain additional information about the error or a link to a URI that provides more details.

## PUT methods
If a PUT method creates a new resource, it returns HTTP status code 201 (Created), as with a POST method. If the method updates an existing resource, it returns either 200 (OK) or 204 (No Content). In some cases, it might not be possible to update an existing resource. In that case, consider returning HTTP status code 409 (Conflict).

Consider implementing bulk HTTP PUT operations that can batch updates to multiple resources in a collection. The PUT request should specify the URI of the collection, and the request body should specify the details of the resources to be modified. This approach can help to reduce chattiness and improve performance.

## PATCH methods
With a PATCH request, the client sends a set of updates to an existing resource, in the form of a patch document. The server processes the patch document to perform the update. The patch document doesn't describe the whole resource, only a set of changes to apply. The specification for the PATCH method (RFC 5789) doesn't define a particular format for patch documents. The format must be inferred from the media type in the request.

JSON is probably the most common data format for web APIs. There are two main JSON-based patch formats, called JSON patch and JSON merge patch.

JSON merge patch is somewhat simpler. The patch document has the same structure as the original JSON resource, but includes just the subset of fields that should be changed or added. In addition, a field can be deleted by specifying null for the field value in the patch document. (That means merge patch is not suitable if the original resource can have explicit null values.)

For example, suppose the original resource has the following JSON representation:


```JSON
{
    "name":"gizmo",
    "category":"widgets",
    "color":"blue",
    "price":10
}
```
Here is a possible JSON merge patch for this resource:

```JSON

{
    "price":12,
    "color":null,
    "size":"small"
}
```
This tells the server to update price, delete color, and add size, while name and category are not modified. For the exact details of JSON merge patch, see RFC 7396. The media type for JSON merge patch is application/merge-patch+json.

Merge patch is not suitable if the original resource can contain explicit null values, due to the special meaning of null in the patch document. Also, the patch document doesn't specify the order that the server should apply the updates. That may or may not matter, depending on the data and the domain. JSON patch, defined in RFC 6902, is more flexible. It specifies the changes as a sequence of operations to apply. Operations include add, remove, replace, copy, and test (to validate values). The media type for JSON patch is application/json-patch+json.

***

## Reference



[RESTful web API design](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/best-practices/api-design)


[ Home ](../README.md)
