# Read-02: State and Props

***

# Component Lifecycle Events

>React lets you define components as classes or functions. The methods that you are able to use on these are called lifecycle events. These methods can be called during the lifecycle of a component, and they allow you to update the UI and application states.


## what happens first, the ‘render’ or the ‘componentDidMount’?

- render ==> componentDidMount

## What is the very first thing to happen in the lifecycle of React?
**- When an instance of a component is being created and inserted into the DOM it occurs during the mounting phase. Constructor, static getDerivedStateFromProps, render, componentDidMount, and UNSAFE_componentWillMount all occur in this order during mounting.**


## the following things happen:
- render 
- componentDidMount
- constructor
- React Updates
- componentWillUnmount

# What does componentDidMount do?
- This method is called when a component is being removed from the DOM:

`componentWillUnmount()`
>Error Handling
These methods are called when there is an error during rendering, in a lifecycle method, or in the constructor of any child component.

`static getDerivedStateFromError()`
`componentDidCatch()`


***


## What is the big difference between props and state?
somthing inside the component when you want to rerender the actual changes 
pass into arguments to a func to pass to the initial component
## When do we re-render our application?
when we change the state
## What are some examples of things that we could store in state?

- user input 
- static 

***

## Reference

[React Vs component](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYvD9oBCuJI)

[Component Lifecycle Events](https://medium.com/@joshuablankenshipnola/react-component-lifecycle-events-cb77e670a093)


[componentWillUnmount](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-component.html#unmounting)


[ Home ](../README.md)
