# Linked Lists
It is a sequence of Nodes(elements of the list) that are connected to each other. Each node references the next node. Link Lists are linear/dynamic data structures. Useful when you do not know the sizing of the list and to just add/remove quickly. Two Types of Linked List:

1. **Singly**
    - number of references the node has
    - There is only ONE reference which points to the *next* node. 
    - Goes in one direction
    - Starts at the head then tranverses to the last node then ends at a null value.
2. **Doubly** 
    - Two/Double references within the node. 
    - References to the *next* and *previous* node.



Other terminology:  
**Next:** This is a property each node has and has the reference to the next node.  It leads us to the next node and lets us extract data. Guides us to where the next reference is pointing.  
**Head:** Reference type of type node to the first node in the list.  
**Current:** Reference type of type node. Is currently looked at. Typically reset current to the head to know you are starting from the beginning of list.  Tells us where we are in the list and lets us move forward until the end. We know we are all the end when the current is null.  
**Transversal:** You can't use a foreach or for loop when transversing. Best to do a while loop to always be checking that next node isn't null. If it does, the program crashes or ends.  
**Node:**  Elements of the list. They have data it holds and references to the next node.
## Print Out Nodes
its semilar to Find() method.

The pseudo code for a method to print out all the nodes in a linked list:
```
		ALGORITHM Print()
		// INPUT <-- None
		// OUTPUT <-- string to console

			Current <-- Head

			while Current.Next is not equal to NULL
				OUTPUT <-- "Current.Value --> "
				Current <-- Current.Next

			OUTPUT <-- "Current.Value --> NULL"
```

### Types of Linked lists
There are a few different types of linked lists. But the most popular ones are: singly, doubly and circular.


**Memory**  
Memory does not have live together, it can be scattered and does not need a set amount of memory. Size, shape, and amount and change.  
The nodes have the "address"/reference to the next node and do not have to be next to each other. 


## Prerequisites

When constructing your code, a few things to keep in mind.

1. When making your *Node* class, consider requiring a value to be passed in **to require that each node has a value.**

2. When making a **Linked List**, you may want to **require** that at **least one node** gets passed in upon instantiation. This first node is what your Head and Current will point too.