## About React

- Instead of artificially separating technologies by putting markup and logic in separate files, React separates concerns with loosely coupled units called “components” that contain both. We will come back to components in a further section, but if you’re not yet comfortable putting markup in JS, this talk might convince you otherwise.
Embedding Expressions in JSX In the example below, we declare a variable called name and then use it inside JSX by wrapping it in curly braces:


- const name = 'Josh Perez'; const element =
- Hello, {name}
- ReactDOM.render( element, document.getElementById('root') );

React embraces the fact that rendering logic is inherently coupled with other - UI logic: how events are handled, how the state changes over time, and how the data is prepared for display.

- Instead of artificially separating technologies by putting markup and logic in separate files, React separates concerns with loosely coupled units called “components” that contain both. We will come back to components in a further section, but if you’re not yet comfortable putting markup in JS, this talk might convince you otherwise.

- React doesn’t require using JSX, but most people find it helpful as a visual aid when working with UI inside the JavaScript code. It also allows React to show more useful error and warning messages.

- Elements are the smallest building blocks of React apps.

- Unlike browser DOM elements, React elements are plain objects, and are cheap to create. React DOM takes care of updating the DOM to match the React elements.

- React elements are immutable. Once you create an element, you can’t change its children or attributes. An element is like a single frame in a movie: it represents the UI at a certain point in time.

- React DOM compares the element and its children to the previous one, and only applies the DOM updates necessary to bring the DOM to the desired state.

- Components let you split the UI into independent, reusable pieces, and think about each piece in isolation. This page provides an introduction to the idea of components. You can find a detailed component API reference here.

- Conceptually, components are like JavaScript functions. They accept arbitrary inputs (called “props”) and return React elements describing what should appear on the screen.

- Components can refer to other components in their output. This lets us use the same component abstraction for any level of detail. A button, a form, a dialog, a screen: in React apps, all those are commonly expressed as components.

- This component can be tricky to change because of all the nesting, and it is also hard to reuse individual parts of it. Let’s extract a few components from it.

- All React components must act like pure functions with respect to their props.

## Converting a Function to a Class

- You can convert a function component to a class in five steps:
- Create an ES6 class, with the same name, that extends React.Component.
- Add a single empty method to it called render().
- Move the body of the function into the render() method.
- Replace props with this.props in the render() body.
- Delete the remaining empty function declaration.

## Architecture beyond HTML

- The basic architecture of React applies beyond rendering HTML in the browser. For example, Facebook has dynamic charts that render to < canvas > tags, and Netflix and PayPal use universal loading to render identical HTML on both the server and client.

## React hooks

- Hooks are functions that let developers "hook into" React state and lifecycle features from function components. Hooks don’t work inside classes — they let you use React without classes.

- React provides a few built-in hooks like useState, useContext, useReducer and useEffect. Others are documented in the Hooks API Reference. useState , useReducer and useEffect, which are the most used, are for controlling state and side effects respectively.

## Common idioms

- React does not attempt to provide a complete "application library". It is designed specifically for building user interfaces and therefore does not include many of the tools some developers might consider necessary to build an application. This allows the choice of whichever libraries the developer prefers to accomplish tasks such as performing network access or local data storage. Common patterns of usage have emerged as the library matures.

## Unidirectional data flow

- To support React's concept of unidirectional data flow (which might be contrasted with AngularJS's bidirectional flow), the Flux architecture was developed as an alternative to the popular model–view–controller architecture. Flux features actions which are sent through a central dispatcher to a store, and changes to the store are propagated back to the view. When used with React, this propagation is accomplished through component properties. Since its conception, Flux has been superseded by libraries such as Redux and MobX.

## State and Lifecycle

Components let you split the UI into independent, reusable pieces, and think about each piece in isolation. This page provides an introduction to the idea of components. You can find a detailed component API reference here.

## Function and Class Components

The simplest way to define a component is to write a JavaScript function:
function Welcome(props) { return <h1>Hello, {props.name}</h1>; }

## Composing Components
Components can refer to other components in their output. This lets us use the same component abstraction for any level of detail. A button, a form, a dialog, a screen: in React apps, all those are commonly expressed as components.