## OSS Contributions

### First Timers Only
If you have never contributed to an open source project before and you’re just getting started, consider exploring these resources.

### First contributions :
is a hands-on tutorial that walks you through contributions workflow on GitHub.

https://up-for-grabs.net :
is a site that aggregates (rolls up and makes easy to explore) projects that actively want help.

### goodfirstissues.com :
is a site that aggregates the latest issues with the label “Good First Issue”, which is a GitHub feature for finding easy issues to tackle. goodfirstissues.com empowers first-time contributors to find and select issues that they want to solve.

### goodfirstissue.dev
curates easy pickings from popular open-source projects, and helps you make your first contribution to open-source.

### CodeTriage

helps you subscribe to your favorite open-source projects and get a new open issue from them in your inbox every day.

Are you an OSS Project Owner?

First timer contributions are normally very small and easy. But this makes it easier for the contributor to get the hang of the contribution process rather than the contribution itself.

### GitHub’s Guide to Open Source

#### Get the most out of open source

Open source software is free for you to use and explore. Get involved to perfect your craft and be part of something big.

#### Shape the future of software

- Your contributions help make technology better for everyone, developers and non-developers alike.

#### Work with the best in the field

- Amazing developers use GitHub. Contribute code to projects that change how software is built.

### Grow your skills and help others

Whatever your skill level, working on open source software is a great way to learn new things.

### Whatever your skill level, working on open source software is a great way to learn new things.

What Motivates a Developer to Contribute to Open-Source Software?
Open-source software (OSS) is a rapidly growing industry that provides many benefits to the individuals and businesses who use it, as well as to its programmers.

For many outside of the IT world, the concept of contributing to open-source software seems like a remarkable psychological phenomenon, as many of the contributors do it by their own free will and are quite often unpaid for it. The thought of contributing to something that requires a good amount of time without getting a dime for their work can be hard to fully understand.

While each person may have different individual motivations, here is a list of some of the most common reasons why developers contribute to open-source software:

1. Improve Coding Skills.
2. Gain Early Experience.
3. Increase Community and Peer Recognition.
4. Greater Job Prospects.
5. Improve Software on a User and Business Level.