## About Drf Permission
- Django REST framework is a powerful and flexible toolkit that makes it easy to build Web APIs. It provides class based generic API views and serializers. We've taken all the attributes and methods that every view/serializer defines or inherits, and flattened all that information onto one comprehensive page per class.

- Permissions in REST framework are always defined as a list of permission classes.

- Before running the main body of the view each permission in the list is checked. If any permission check fails an exceptions.PermissionDenied or exceptions.

- When the permissions checks fail either a "403 Forbidden" or a "401 Unauthorized" response will be returned, according to the following rules:

- The request was successfully authenticated, but permission was denied. — An HTTP 403 Forbidden response will be returned.

- The request was not successfully authenticated, and the highest priority authentication class does not use WWW-Authenticate headers. — An HTTP 403 Forbidden response will be returned.

- The request was not successfully authenticated, and the highest priority authentication class does use WWW-Authenticate headers. — An HTTP 401 Unauthorized response, with an appropriate WWW-Authenticate header will be returned.

## API Reference
- AllowAny permission class will allow unrestricted access, regardless of if the request was authenticated or unauthenticated.

- This permission is not strictly required, since you can achieve the same result by using an empty list or tuple for the permissions setting, but you may find it useful to specify this class because it makes the intention explicit.

- IsAuthenticated The IsAuthenticated permission class will deny permission to any unauthenticated user, and allow permission otherwise.
This permission is suitable if you want your API to only be accessible to registered users.

- IsAdminUser The IsAdminUser permission class will deny permission to any user, unless user.is_staff is - True in which case permission will be allowed.
This permission is suitable if you want your API to only be accessible to a subset of trusted administrators.

- IsAuthenticatedOrReadOnly The IsAuthenticatedOrReadOnly will allow authenticated users to perform any - - request. Requests for unauthorised users will only be permitted if the request method is one of the “safe” methods; GET, HEAD or OPTIONS.
- This permission is suitable if you want to your API to allow read permissions to anonymous users, and only allow write permissions to authenticated users.

## DjangoModelPermissions
- This permission class ties into Django’s standard django.contrib.auth model permissions.

- This permission must only be applied to views that have a .queryset property or get_queryset() method.

- Authorization will only be granted if the user is authenticated and has the relevant model permissions assigned.

- POST requests require the user to have the add permission on the model.

- PUT and PATCH requests require the user to have the change permission on the model.

- DELETE requests require the user to have the delete permission on the model.

- DjangoObjectPermissions (Links to an external site.)
This permission class ties into Django’s standard object permissions framework that allows per-object permissions on models. In order to use this permission class, you’ll also need to add a permission backend that supports object-level permissions, such as django-guardian.

## Generic views
Django’s generic views... were developed as a shortcut for common usage patterns... They take certain common idioms and patterns found in view development and abstract them so that you can quickly write common views of data without having to repeat yourself.
Generic views Django’s generic views... were developed as a shortcut for common usage patterns... They take certain common idioms and patterns found in view development and abstract them so that you can quickly write common views of data without having to repeat yourself.