## How to Statically Generate Pages with Dynamic Routes
In our case, we want to create dynamic routes for blog posts:

- We want each post to have the path /posts/, where is the name of the markdown file under the top-level posts directory. Since we have ssg-ssr.md and pre-rendering.md, we’d like the paths to be /posts/ssg-ssr and /posts/pre-rendering.

## Implement getStaticPaths

- Create a file called [id].js inside the pages/posts directory.
- Also, remove first-post.js inside the pages/posts directory — we’ll no longer use this.
- paths contains the array of known paths returned by getAllPostIds(), which include the params defined by pages/posts/- [id].js. Learn more in the paths key documentation.
- Ignore fallback: false for now — we’ll explain that later.

Implement getStaticProps

-We need to fetch necessary data to render the post with the given id.

## Render Markdown

To render markdown content, we’ll use the remark library.

## Overview of the Steps

We can do this by taking the following steps. You don’t have to make these changes yet — we’ll do it all on the next page.

- First, we’ll create a page called [id].js under pages/posts. Pages that begin with [ and end with ] are dynamic routes in Next.js.
In pages/posts/[id].js, we’ll write code that will render a post page — just like other pages we’ve created.

- Now, here’s what’s new: We’ll export an async function called getStaticPaths from this page. In this function, we need to return a list of possible values for id.

- Finally, we need to implement getStaticProps again - this time, to fetch necessary data for the blog post with a given id. getStaticProps is given params, which contains id (because the file name is [id].js).



## Implement getStaticPaths

- First, let’s set up the files:
Create a file called [id].js inside the pages/posts directory. Also, remove first-post.js inside the pages/posts directory — we’ll no longer use this. Then, open pages/posts/[id].js in your editor and paste the following code. We’ll fill in ... later

- Then, open lib/posts.js and add the following getAllPostIds function at the bottom. It will return the list of file names (excluding .md) in the posts directory

- Finally, we'll import the getAllPostIds function and use it inside getStaticPaths. Open pages/posts/[id].js and copy the following code above the exported Post component

## Formatting the Date

To format the date, we’ll use the date-fns library
## Adding CSS

- Finally, let’s add some CSS using the file styles/utils.module.css we added before. Open pages/posts/[id].js, then add an import for the CSS file

## Development v.s. Production

- In development (npm run dev or yarn dev), getStaticPaths runs on every request.
- In production, getStaticPaths runs at build time.
## Deploying Your Next.js App

- Push to GitHub
1. Before we deploy, let’s push our Next.js app to GitHub if you haven’t done so already. This will make deployment easier.

2. On your personal GitHub account, create a new repository called nextjs-blog. The repository can be public or private. You do not need to initialize it with a README or other files. If you need help setting up your repo, take a look at this guide on GitHub. Then:

3. If you haven’t initialized the git repository locally for your Next.js app, do so now. Push the Next.js app to your GitHub repository.

## Deploy to Vercel

- The easiest way to deploy Next.js to production is to use the Vercel platform developed by the creators of Next.js.

- Vercel is a serverless platform for static and hybrid applications built to integrate with your headless content, commerce, or database. We make it easy for frontend teams to develop, preview, and ship delightful user experiences, where performance is the default. You can start using it for free — no credit card required.

## mport your nextjs-blog repository

- Once you’re signed up, import your nextjs-blog repository on Vercel.

- You’ll need to Install Vercel for GitHub. You can give it access to All Repositories. Once you’ve installed Vercel, import nextjs-blog. You can use default values for the following settings — no need to change anything. Vercel automatically detects that you have a Next.js app and chooses optimal build settings for you.

- Project Name Root Directory Build Command Output Directory Development Command When you deploy, your Next.js app will start building. It should finish in under a minute.

## Preview Deployment for Every Push
- Develop, Preview, Ship

- We’ve just gone through the workflow we call DPS: Develop, Preview, and Ship.

    - Develop: We’ve written code in Next.js and used the Next.js development server running to take advantage of its hot reloading feature.
    - Preview: We’ve pushed changes to a branch on GitHub, and Vercel created a preview deployment that’s available via a URL. We can share this -- preview URL with others for feedback. In addition to doing code reviews, you can do deployment previews.
    -  Ship: We’ve merged the pull request to main to ship to production.