# What is JSON Web Token?
- JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.

- Although JWTs can be encrypted to also provide secrecy between parties, we will focus on signed tokens. Signed tokens can verify the integrity of the claims contained within it, while encrypted tokens hide those claims from other parties. When tokens are signed using public/private key pairs, the signature also certifies that only the party holding the private key is the one that signed it.

## When should you use JSON Web Tokens?
Here are some scenarios where JSON Web Tokens are useful:

- Authorization: This is the most common scenario for using JWT. - - Once the user is logged in, each subsequent request will include the JWT, allowing the user to access routes, services, and resources that are permitted with that token. Single Sign On is a feature that widely uses JWT nowadays, because of its small overhead and its ability to be easily used across different domains.
- Information Exchange: JSON Web Tokens are a good way of securely transmitting information between parties. Because JWTs can be signed—for example, using public/private key pairs—you can be sure the senders are who they say they are. Additionally, as the signature is calculated using the header and the payload, you can also verify that the content hasn’t been tampered with.

## JSON Web Token structure
1- Header

2- Payload

3- Signature

## How do JSON Web Tokens work?
- In authentication, when the user successfully logs in using their credentials, a JSON Web Token will be returned. Since tokens are credentials, great care must be taken to prevent security issues. In general, you should not keep tokens longer than required.

-  also should not store sensitive session data in browser storage due to lack of security.

- Whenever the user wants to access a protected route or resource, the user agent should send the JWT, typically in the Authorization header using the Bearer schema.

- how a JWT is obtained and used to access APIs or resources:

- The application or client requests authorization to the authorization server. This is performed through one of the different authorization flows. For example, a typical OpenID Connect compliant web application will go through the /oauth/authorize endpoint using the authorization code flow.

- When the authorization is granted, the authorization server returns an access token to the application.

- The application uses the access token to access a protected resource (like an API).
## Putting all together

The output is three Base64-URL strings separated by dots that can be easily passed in HTML and HTTP environments, while being more compact when compared to XML-based standards such as SAML.

## DRF JWT Authentication
How to Use JWT Authentication with Django REST Framework JWT stand for JSON Web Token and it is an authentication strategy used by client/server applications where the client is a Web application using JavaScript and some frontend framework like Angular, React or VueJS.

## How Does Django Fit In?
Your Django app does not actually run as you would think a server would - waiting for requests and reacting to them. Your project provides a uwsgi.py file, which contains a function to be called by the application server. This function gets a Python object representing the incoming request.

This function calls your code, and produces a response object which is passed to the WSGI server. There the response is translated into a HTTP response and is passed back to the web server, which finally delivers it to the user.