# Data Analysis

## Data Science

It is a set of disciplines and practices that handle data in a scientific manner. The foundations of data science are mostly Mathematics and Statistics, sometimes Software Engineering would play a role as well.

* The data could be in the form of .CSV files. Excel file (.XLSX) is a typical form, or it could be available by API calls, or someone has done the dirty work already and they are all in DWH(Data WareHouse) or Data Lake.

* Data Engineering

    Data Engineering is building a stable and reliable architecture for data storage and consumption. It is a extremely vital part as all kinds of data science tricks depends on it.

* Machine Learning

    Machine Learning aims at building algorithms, and algorithms can be divided into 2 categories: Supervised Learning and Unsupervised Learning.

* Deep Learning
    Machine Learning focus on tabular data, and Deep Learning handles untraditional data such as images, text, voice recordings. Deep Learning algorithms work on computer vision, speech recognition, NLP (Natural Language Processing) and so on. Famous language learning app Duolingo obviously uses a lot of Deep Learning to “teach languages better”.

## Jupyter Notebook/JupyterLab

    Jupyter Notebook is a very famous and popular tool to do all kind of things to data in an interactive environment (IPython). It supports JUlia, PYThon and R as well.

    JupyterLab enables you to work with documents and activities such as Jupyter notebooks, text editors, terminals, and custom components in a flexible, integrated, and extensible manner

    To use Jupyter Notebook/JupyterLab, it is suggested to install Anaconda first. Anaconda is an environmental management tool that decides what the environment should be for the code to be executed in.

# NumPy

* NumPy is a commonly used Python data analysis package 