## Django Models

Django web applications access and manage data through Python objects referred to as models. Models define the structure of stored data, including the field types and possibly also their maximum size, default values, selection list options, help text for documentation, label text for forms, etc. The definition of the model is independent of the underlying database — you can choose one of several as part of your project settings. Once you've chosen what database you want to use, you don't need to talk to it directly at all — you just write your model structure and other code, and Django handles all the dirty work of communicating with the database for you.

## Model definition
Models are usually defined in an application's models.py (Links to an external site.) file. They are implemented as subclasses of django.db.models.Model, and can include fields, methods and metadata.

## Fields
A model can have an arbitrary number of fields, of any type — each one represents a column of data that we want to store in one of our database tables. Each database record (row) will consist of one of each field value.

my_field_name = models.CharField(max_length=20, help_text='Enter field documentation')

Our above example has a single field called my_field_name, of type models.CharField — which means that this field will contain strings of alphanumeric characters.

## Common field arguments
The following common arguments can be used when declaring many/most of the different field types:
help_text
verbose_name
default
null
blank
choices
primary_key


## Common field types
The following list describes some of the more commonly used types of fields.

CharField
TextField.
IntegerField
DateField
EmailField
FileField
AutoField
ManyToManyField
Advanced configurati

Django Admin
- The Django admin application : can use your models to automatically build a site area that you can use to create, view, update, and delete records. This can save you a lot of time during development, making it very easy to test your models and get a feel for whether you have the right data.
- The admin application can also be useful for managing data in production, depending on the type of website. The Django project recommends it only for internal data management (i.e. just for use by admins, or people internal to your organization), as the model-centric approach is not necessarily the best possible interface for all users, and exposes a lot of unnecessary detail about the models.
All the configuration required to include the admin application in your website was done automatically when you created the skeleton project
First, open admin.py in the catalog application, then do from django.contrib import admin
Register the models by copying the following text into the bottom of the file. This code simply imports the models and then calls admin.site.register to register each of them.
In order to view and create records we also need this user to have permissions to manage all our objects. You can create a "superuser" account that has full access to the site and all needed permissions using manage.py.
Call the following command : python3 manage.py createsuperuser, in the same directory as manage.py, to create the superuser. You will be prompted to enter a username, email address, and strong password.
- To login to the site, open the /admin URL (e.g. http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin) and enter your new superuser userid and password credentials (you’ll be redirected to the login page, and then back to the /admin URL after you’ve entered your details).
Django does a pretty good job of creating a basic admin site using the information from the registered models:
Each model has a list of individual records, identified by the string created with the model’s str() - method, and linked to detail views/forms for editing. By default, this view has an action menu at the top that you can use to perform bulk delete operations on records.
The model detail record forms for editing and adding records contain all the fields in the model, laid out vertically in their declaration order.