# Django Best Practices: Custom User Model

- Django ships with a built-in User model for authentication and if you’d like a basic tutorial on how to implement log in, log out, sign up and so on see the Django Login and Logout tutorial for more.

- However, for a real-world project, the official Django documentation highly recommends using a custom user model instead. This provides far more flexibility down the line so, as a general rule, always use a custom user model for all new Django projects.

- But how to implement one? The official documentation example is not actually what many Django experts recommend using. There is a far easier yet still powerful approach to starting off new Django projects with a custom user model which I’ll demonstrate here.

Setup To start, create a new Django project from the command line. We need to do several things:

- create and navigate into a dedicated directory called accounts for our code 2) install Django 3) make a new Django project called config 4) make a new app accounts 5) start the local web server Here are the - - - - commands to run:
```
$ cd ~/Desktop
$ mkdir accounts && cd accounts
$ pipenv install django~=3.1.0
$ pipenv shell
(accounts) $ django-admin.py startproject config .
(accounts) $ python manage.py startapp accounts
(accounts) $ python manage.py runserver
```
## AbstractUser vs AbstractBaseUser
There are two modern ways to create a custom user model in Django: AbstractUser and AbstractBaseUser. In both cases we can subclass them to extend existing functionality however AbstractBaseUser requires much, much more work.

## Custom User Model
Creating our initial custom user model requires four steps:

update config/settings.py

create a new CustomUser model

create new UserCreation and UserChangeForm

update the admin

In settings.py we'll add the accounts app and use the AUTH_USER_MODEL config to tell Django to use our new custom user model in place of the built-in User model. We'll call our custom user model CustomUser.

Within INSTALLED_APPS add accounts at the bottom. Then at the bottom of the entire file, add the AUTH_USER_MODEL config.

```
note

for a real-world project, the official Django documentation highly recommends using a custom user model instead. This provides far more flexibility down the line so, as a general rule, always use a custom user model for all new Django projects.



```

