## More About React

In React, you can create distinct components that encapsulate behavior you need. Then, you can render only some of them, depending on the state of your application.

## Conditional Rendering

- Conditional rendering in React works the same way conditions work in JavaScript. Use JavaScript operators like if or the conditional operator to create elements representing the current state, and let React update the UI to match them.

- Element Variables You can use variables to store elements. This can help you conditionally render a part of the component while the rest of the output doesn’t change. Inline If with Logical && Operator

- You may embed expressions in JSX by wrapping them in curly braces. This includes the JavaScript logical && operator. It can be handy for conditionally including an element:

## Lists and Keys

1. Lists :

- Given the code below, we use the map() function to take an array of numbers and double their values. We assign the new array returned by map() to the variable doubled and log it:

const numbers=[1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
const doubled=numbers.map((number) => number *2);
console.log(doubled);

This code logs [2, 4, 6, 8, 10] to the console.

- In React, transforming arrays into lists of elements is nearly identical.

- Rendering Multiple Components

- You can build collections of elements and include them in JSX using curly braces {}.

## Preventing Component from Rendering

In rare cases you might want a component to hide itself even though it was rendered by another component. To do this return null instead of its render output. The best way to pick a key is to use a string that uniquely identifies a list item among its siblings. Most often you would use IDs from your data as keys

## Keys

- Keys help React identify which items have changed, are added, or are removed.

- React has a powerful composition model, and we recommend using composition instead of inheritance to reuse code between components.

## Extracting Components with Keys

- Keys only make sense in the context of the surrounding array.

- For example, if you extract a ListItem component, you should keep the key on the elements in the array rather than on the

- element in the ListItem itself.

## Forms

- HTML form elements work a little bit differently from other DOM elements in React, because form elements naturally keep some internal state. For example, this form in plain HTML accepts a single name

## Name:

- This form has the default HTML form behavior of browsing to a new page when the user submits the form. If you want this behavior in React, it just works. But in most cases, it’s convenient to have a JavaScript function that handles the submission of the form and has access to the data that the user entered into the form. The standard way to achieve this is with a technique called “controlled components”.

## Lifting State Up

- Often, several components need to reflect the same changing data. We recommend lifting the shared state up to their closest common ancestor. Let’s see how this works in action.

- In this section, we will create a temperature calculator that calculates whether the water would boil at a given temperature.

- Composition vs Inheritance

- React has a powerful composition model, and we recommend using composition instead of inheritance to reuse code between components.

- Thinking in React

- React is, in our opinion, the premier way to build big, fast Web apps with JavaScript. It has scaled very well for us at Facebook and Instagram.

- One of the many great parts of React is how it makes you think about apps as you build them. In this document, we’ll walk you through the thought process of building a searchable product data table using React.

## Specialization

Sometimes we think about components as being “special cases” of other components. For example, we might say that a WelcomeDialog is a special case of Dialog.