# Stacks and Queues

## Stack:

A stack is a data structure that consists of **Nodes**

* Each Node references the next Node in the stack, but does not reference its previous.

### Common terminology for a stack is:

1. **Push** - Nodes or items that are put into the stack are pushed
2. **Pop** - Nodes or items that are removed from the stack are popped. When you attempt to pop an empty stack an exception will be raised.
3. **Top** - This is the top of the stack.
4. **Peek** - When you peek you will view the value of the top Node in the stack. When you attempt to peek an empty stack an exception will be raised.
5. **IsEmpty** - returns true when stack is empty otherwise returns false.

### FILO
a Stack follows **FILO** Which is First In Last Out and **LIFO** Last In First Out
1. **FILO**
* This means that the first item added in the stack will be the last item popped out of the stack.

2. **LIFO**
This means that the last item added to the stack will be the first item popped out of the stack.
## Queue
Commn terminology for a queue is

1. Enqueue - Nodes or items that are added to the queue.
2. Dequeue - Nodes or items that are removed from the queue. If called when the queue is empty an exception will be raised.
3. Front - This is the front/first Node of the queue.
4. Rear - This is the rear/last Node of the queue.
5. Peek - When you peek you will view the value of the front Node in the queue. If called when the queue is empty an exception will be raised.
6. IsEmpty - returns true when queue is empty otherwise returns false.
Queues follow these concepts:
**FIFO**
First In First Out

This means that the first item in the queue will be the first item out of the queue.

**LILO**
Last In Last Out