# Linear Regression in Python :


# About Linear Regression
- linear regression is a popular technique and you might as well seen the mathematical equation of linear regression.

- There are several ways in which you can do that, you can do linear regression using numpy, scipy, stats model and sckit learn
## How to run Linear regression in Python

- Linear regression : is one of the fundamental statistical and machine learning techniques. Whether you want to do statistics, machine learning, or scientific computing, there are good chances that you’ll need it. It’s advisable to learn it first and then proceed towards more complex methods.
- Regression analysis : is one of the most important fields in statistics and machine learning. There are many regression methods available. Linear regression is one of them.
- Regression searches for relationships among variables.
- When Do You Need Regression?
    to answer whether and how some phenomenon influences the other or how several variables are related
    is also useful when you want to forecast a response using a new set of predictors.
    Regression is used in many different fields: economy, computer science, social sciences, and so on
- Linear regression is probably one of the most important and widely used regression techniques. It’s among the simplest regression methods. One of its main advantages is the ease of interpreting results.

- The package scikit-learn : is a widely used Python library for machine learning, built on top of NumPy and some other packages. It provides the means for preprocessing data, reducing dimensionality, implementing regression, classification, clustering, and more. Like NumPy, scikit-learn is also open source.
- There are several ways in which you can do that, you can do linear regression using NumPy, scipy, stats model and sckit learn.
- Scikit-learn is a powerful Python module for machine learning. It contains functions for regression, classification, clustering, model selection and dimensionality reduction.
- sklearn.linear_model module : which contains “methods intended for regression in which the target value is expected to be a linear combination of the input variables”.
- steps to begin working :
    - import the required Python libraries into Ipython Notebook.
    - import data set into Ipython notebook and store it in a variable
    - convert data into a pandas data frame

## Exploring Boston Housing Data Set

- The first step is to import the required Python libraries into Ipython Notebook.

- This data set is available in sklearn Python module, so I will access it using scikitlearn. I am going to  import Boston data set into Ipython notebook and store it in a variable called boston.

- The object boston is a dictionary, so you can explore the keys of this dictionary.

## Scikit-learn 
- is a powerful Python module for machine learning. It contains function for regression, classification, clustering, model selection and dimensionality reduction.


- If you want to look inside the linear regression object, you can do so by typing LinearRegression. and the press <tab> key. This will give a list of functions available inside linear regression object.

## Important functions while fitting a linear regression model are:

1) lm.fit() -> fits a linear model

2) lm.predict() -> Predict Y using the linear model with estimated coefficients

3) lm.score() -> Returns the coefficient of determination (R^2). A measure of how well observed outcomes are replicated by the model, as the proportion of total variation of outcomes explained by the model.

## Residual Plots
- Residual plots are a good way to visualize the errors in your data. If you have done a good job then your data should be randomly scattered around line zero. If you see structure in your data, that means your model is not capturing some thing.

## Apply the model for predictions.

- Types(cases) of the linear ewgression :

    - Multiple Linear Regression With scikit-learn

    - Polynomial Regression With scikit-learn

    - Advanced Linear Regression With statsmodels

- Linear regression is sometimes not appropriate, especially for non-linear models of high complexity.
- we use NumPy for handling arrays.
- Linear regression is implemented with the following:

    - scikit-learn : if you don’t need detailed results and want to use the approach consistent with other regression techniques
    - statsmodels : if you need the advanced statistical parameters of a model

## More about Linear Regression type
Simple linear regression 1 dependent variable (interval or ratio), 1 independent variable (interval or ratio or dichotomous)

- Multiple linear regression 1 dependent variable (interval or ratio) , 2+ independent variables (interval or ratio or dichotomous)

- Logistic regression 1 dependent variable (dichotomous), 2+ independent variable(s) (interval or ratio or dichotomous)

- Ordinal regression 1 dependent variable (ordinal), 1+ independent variable(s) (nominal or dichotomous)
