# What is Django ??!!
- Django is a high-level Python web framework that enables rapid development of secure and maintainable websites
With Django, you can take Web applications from concept to launch in a matter of hours. Django takes care of much of the hassle of Web development, so you can focus on writing your app without needing to reinvent the wheel. It’s free and open source.


## Django helps you write software that is:
- Complete : provides almost everything developers might want to do “out of the box”. Because everything you need is part of the one “product”, it all works seamlessly together, follows consistent design principles
- versatile : Django can be (and has been) used to build almost any type of website — from content management systems and wikis, through to social networks and news sites. It can work with any client-side framework, and can deliver content in almost any format (including HTML, RSS feeds, JSON, XML, etc).
- Secure : Django helps developers avoid many common security mistakes by providing a framework that has been engineered to “do the right things” to protect the website automatically. For example, Django provides a secure way to manage user accounts and passwords, avoiding common mistakes like putting session information in cookies where it is vulnerable (instead cookies just contain a key, and the actual data is stored in the database) or directly storing passwords rather than a password hash.Django enables protection against many vulnerabilities by default, including SQL injection, cross-site scripting, cross-site request forgery and clickjacking (see Website security for more details of such attacks).
- Scalable : Django uses a component-based “shared-nothing” architecture (each part of the architecture is independent of the others, and can hence be replaced or changed if needed). Having a clear separation between the different parts means that it can scale for increased traffic by adding hardware at any level: caching servers, database servers,or application servers. Some of the busiest sites have successfully scaled Django to meet their demands (e.g. Instagram and Disqus, to name just two).
- Maintainable : Django code is written using design principles and patterns that encourage the creation of maintainable and reusable code. In particular, it makes use of the Don’t Repeat Yourself (DRY) principle so there is no unnecessary duplication, reducing the amount of code. Django also promotes the grouping of related functionality into reusable “applications” and, at a lower level, groups related code into modules (along the lines of the Model View Controller (MVC) pattern).
- Portable : Django is written in Python, which runs on many platforms. That means that you are not tied to any particular server platform, and can run your applications on many flavours of Linux, Windows, and Mac OS X. Furthermore, Django is well-supported by many web hosting providers, who often provide specific infrastructure and documentation for hosting Django sites.
- Django is “somewhat opinionated”, and hence delivers the “best of both worlds”. It provides a set of components to handle most web development tasks and one (or two) preferred ways to use them. However, Django’s decoupled architecture means that you can usually pick and choose from a number of different options, or add support for completely new ones if desired.

## Installing an official release with pip

This is the recommended way to install Django.
Install pip. The easiest is to use the standalone pip installer. If your distribution already has pip installed, you might need to update it if it’s outdated. If it’s outdated, you’ll know because installation won’t work. After you’ve created and activated a virtual environment, enter the command:

python -m pip install Django
URLs and views
A clean, elegant URL scheme is an important detail in a high-quality Web application. Django encourages beautiful URL design and doesn’t put any cruft in URLs, like .php or .asp.
-To design URLs for an application, you create a Python module called a URLconf. Like a table of contents for your app, it contains a simple mapping between URL patterns and your views.

from django.urls import path

from . import views

urlpatterns = [
    path('bands/', views.band_listing, name='band-list'),
    path('bands/<int:band_id>/', views.band_detail, name='band-detail'),
    path('bands/search/', views.band_search, name='band-search'),
]

## How Django Works Behind the Scenes
- Django is a Python-based web framework used by millions of developers and billions of consumers through popular apps like Instagram. It is open source, meaning the code is available for free on Github and can be downloaded onto any developer’s computer and used alongside the official documentation.
ِAlmost all popular open source packages have some degree of funding involved, typically in one of three forms:

- Corporate Sponsor - A group of engineers within a larger, for-profit company decide to open-source internal code. This is how React (Facebook) and Angular (Google) emerged. Typically engineers at the company are paid, in part, to work on open source though community involvement from developers outside of the core company occurs as well. While this structure has the stability of a wealthy benefactor, there can be confusion around the licensing aspects at times.

- Solo - An individual developer initially creates code, open sources it, and retains default control. This is the case for VueJS, Tailwind CSS, and Laravel, among others. Typically the lead developer either raises contributions directly like Evan You of VueJS, offer add-on services like Spark for Laravel, or the founders provide highly-paid consulting services.

- Non-profit - This was Django’s approach early on, in 2008, when the Django Software Foundation was formed to promote, support, and advance Django.