# web scraping:

# About Web Scraping
- Web scraping is a technique to automatically access and extract large amounts of information from a website, which can save a huge amount of time and effort.

- process of using bots to extract content and data from a website.

- Web scraping is used in a variety of digital businesses that rely on data harvesting. Legitimate use cases include:

    - Search engine bots crawling a site, analyzing its content and then ranking it.
    - Price comparison sites deploying bots to auto-fetch prices and product descriptions for allied seller websites.
   - Market research companies using scrapers to pull data from forums and social media (e.g., for sentiment analysis).

## Inspecting the Website

The first thing that we need to do is to figure out where we can locate the links to the files we want to download inside the multiple levels of HTML tags. Simply put, there is a lot of code on a website page and we want to find the relevant pieces of code that contains our data.


- Scraper tools and bots Web scraping tools are software (i.e., bots) programmed to sift through databases and extract information. A variety of bot types are used, many being fully customizable to:

    - Recognize unique HTML site structures
    - Extract and transform content
    - Store scraped data
    - Extract data from APIs

- Since all scraping bots have the same purpose—to access site data—it can be difficult to distinguish between legitimate and malicious bots.


- We start by importing the following libraries.

```
import requests
import urllib.request
import time
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup
```

# Beautiful Soup

- Beautiful Soup : is a Python library designed for quick turnaround projects like screen-scraping.
- Three features make it powerful:

- Beautiful Soup provides a few simple methods and Pythonic idioms for navigating, searching, and modifying a parse tree: a toolkit for dissecting a document and extracting what you need. It doesn’t take much code to write an application

- Beautiful Soup automatically converts incoming documents to Unicode and outgoing documents to UTF-8. You don’t have to think about encodings, unless the document      doesn’t specify an encoding and Beautiful Soup can’t detect one. Then you just have to specify the original encoding.

- Beautiful Soup sits on top of popular Python parsers like lxml and html5lib, allowing you to try out different parsing strategies or trade speed for flexibility.

- Beautiful Soup parses anything you give it, and does the tree traversal stuff for you. You can tell it “Find all the links”, or “Find all the links of class externalLink”, or “Find all the links whose urls match “foo.com”, or “Find the table heading that’s got bold text, then give me that text.”

- Valuable data that was once locked up in poorly-designed websites is now within your reach. Projects that would have taken hours take only minutes with Beautiful Soup

### Semantic annotation recognizing

- The pages being scraped may embrace metadata or semantic markups and annotations, which can be used to locate specific data snippets. If the annotations are embedded in the pages, as Microformat does, this technique can be viewed as a special case of DOM parsing. In another case, the annotations, organized into a semantic layer,[4] are stored and managed separately from the web pages, so the scrapers can retrieve data schema and instructions from this layer before scraping the pages.