# Introduction to CSS :
The major issue with css is to imagine every html element like in a box There is 3 types of elements considering the block view:


- Block elements : takes the width of the screen.

- inline elements : takes the width and height of its content.

- inline-block elements : acts like block elements with fixed 
height and width .

**CSS associates style rules with HTML elements using selectors .**

*CSS rules consists of selectors that may be :*
- Element name selector.
- Id selector.
- Class selector.
**after the selector in curly brackets there is :**
- A CSS property like font-family , color .
- A value of that property .

Using external CSS : You can achieve that using the html tag which is with those attributes :

href : specifies the path of the style sheet .
rel : specifies the relationship between the HTML file and this one which is style sheet .
type : the type of the file which is style/css.
Internal CSS : Use the <style> tag to include internal styling .

Links to an external site.Selectors :
allows you to direct rules to a specific element in a HTML document .

Types of selectors :

Universal ("*") : Applies to all elements in a document .
Type ("h1,p,pre") : Applies to the selected tag name .
Class (".class") : to a specific class .
Id ("#Id") : TO AN ID .
Child ("li>a") : to a direct child of an element.
Descendant ("p a") : Matches a descendant of the element not just a child.
Adjacent sibling ("h1+b") : Matches the next sibling.
General sibling ("h1~p") : Matches a general sibling.
Links to an external site.Rule precedence :
The last rule will apply.
You can add !important after a rule that specify that it takes higher precedence .
Links to an external site.Inheritance :
Child elements can inherit some properties "Not all" .
Links to an external site.JavaScript basic instructions :
JS consists of statements that declares or does some function that ends with semi colon and it can be organized into blocks of code or in {}.

Comments are use to give notes about the code and to summarzie some of the functions and ther is multi line comments and single line comments .

Variables are a method to change frequently changing data we use key words let and var to initialize a variable and then we initialize them using the equal sign followed by a semi colon.

JS is case sensitive to naming variables and keywords variables must start with a dollar sign or an underscore or a letter only and cant start with a number and must contain just one of the three contents i mentioned earlier and the best practice to use a meaningful name with upper camel case applied.

Data type are string which are wraped in single or double quotes , numbers like integers and floats and boolean that maybe false or true .

Arrays : are data structures that have fixed sizes to store a list of items of different types can be declared as an ordinary varibale but initialized using[] with items wrapped inside seperated by a comma .

Items in array are ordered by index starting from 0 items can be accesed through that index with the [] to acquire the length a built in length property can be invoked which returns the length.

Expression are used to compare or state mathmatical expressions , operators types are arithmetic , string and boolean operators .

Links to an external site.Decisions in JS :
Links to an external site.Comparison operators :
== : used to compare two values if equal .
!= : used to compare two values if not equal .
=== (strict equal) : used to compare two values and types ("preferable to use more than ==").
!== (strict not equal): used to compare two values if not equal in values and types .
> : used to identify if the first is greater than the second .
< : used to identify if the first is less than the second .
<= : used to identify if the first is less than or equal the second .
>=:used to identify if the first is greater than or equal the second .
Comparison operators return true or false .

Logical operators are used to combine the result of two or more comparison statements .

Logical operators :

&& (and) : Tests more than one condition .

|| (or) : Tests at least one condition .

! (not) : Takes at least on boolean result and inverts it .

If statement is decision statement used to apply a block of code if the condition which is boolean expression is true and otherwise another block of code is intemedated.