
# **CSS transitions and transforms** 

> CSS transitions and transforms are a powerful way to enhance and delight user experiences.
 No added library like GSAP or Velocity.js are necessary. Neither is JavaScript required. CSS3 animations include properties that are already built into CSS and are widely supported across all browsers. Animations are a great way to provide visual feedback, delightful moments and memorable interactions. Remember, animations should enhance the user experience and not be distracting. Animations should be consistent with subtle and simple movements.
 
 - Transitions
*First*, I will cover transitions since transitions act as the foundation of animations because they specify the duration of an element changing its state smoothly over time. Without a transition this state change would be abrupt and take effect immediately. You will want to use transitions when using transforms in order to produce a smooth and gradual animation.
*There are four transition properties,*
-transition-property (required)
--transition-duration (required)
transition-timing-function
-transition-delay
>The transition-property specifies the property to be transitioned. You can apply a transition to an individual property like the border-color or to all the properties by specifying all.
- element {transition-property: border-color;
  transition-property: all;}<

 -*The transition-duration specifies the time span of the transition. The duration can be declared as seconds (s) or milliseconds (ms).*
 
 
 # *Transforms*

**Now we’ll be discussing transforms.**
 Here’s where we can really have some fun with elements by distorting them and making them zoom across the screen. 
 >But of course, remember we’re trying to please and entertain our end users rather than make them annoyed. 

 *Transforms allow us to move or change the appearance of an element on a 2D plane*. 
 - We will want to use transforms with transitions in order to produce a smooth animation. They are triggered when an element changes state, such as on a hover.
 -  Transform-origin is separate from the transform property, but can be used in conjunction with it to specify the location origin of the transform.
- There are four different types of transforms: Rotate, Skew, Scale and Translate
Rotate
- The rotate transform rotates an element clockwise or counterclockwise by a specified number of degrees (deg). A positive value (90deg) will rotate the element clockwise and a negative value (-100deg) will rotate the element counterclockwise.