# CSS Grid Layout and Progressive Enhancement

In Spring of 2017, we saw for the first time a major specification like Grid being shipped into browsers almost simultaneously, and we now have CSS Grid Layout support in the public versions of Firefox, Chrome, Opera, Safari and Edge. However, while evergreen browsers mean that many of us are going to see the majority of users having Grid Layout support very quickly, there are also old or non-supporting browsers to contend with. In this guide we will walk through a variety of strategies for support.

-The supporting browsers
Other than in Internet Explorer, CSS Grid Layout is unprefixed in Safari, Chrome, Opera,  Firefox and Edge. Support for all the properties and values detailed in these guides is interoperable across browsers. This means that if you write some Grid Layout code in Firefox, it should work in the same way in Chrome. This is no longer an experimental specification, and you are safe to use it in production.

-The Internet Explorer and Edge situation
It should be remembered that the original implementation of CSS Grid Layout happened in Internet Explorer 10. This early specification did not contain all of the properties and values that the up-to-date specification has. There are also substantial differences between what shipped in IE10 and the current specification, even where the properties and values appear the same. This early implementation is also the version of Grid Layout implemented in Edge up to version 15.

-The IE/Edge (≤15) version of the specification is prefixed with an -ms prefix and the properties implemented in IE/Edge (≤15) are as follows:

-*grid-template-columns as -ms-grid-columns
-*grid-template-rows as -ms-grid-rows
-*grid-row-start as -ms-grid-row
-*grid-column-start as -ms-grid-column
-*align-self as -ms-grid-row-align
-*justify-self as -ms-grid-column-align
>The IE version has additional properties not required in the -*new specification of -ms-grid-column-span and -*ms-grid-row-span. This version does not include auto-placement capability, or grid template areas. Some simple grid layouts could be implemented for IE10, through to Edge 15, using the -ms properties. As these properties are vendor prefixed, they will not effect any browser supporting the up to date and unprefixed specification.

-*Autoprefixer grid layout support*
-*The popular tool Autoprefixer has been updated to support the -ms- grid version. By default, grid prefixes are disabled, but you can enable it with grid: true option.

autoprefixer({ grid: 'autoplace' })
Grid prefixes are disabled by default because some properties can’t be prefixed.

**Is it safe to use CSS grids for my layout?**
As with any front-end technology choice, the decision to use CSS Grid Layout will come down to the browsers your site visitors are typically using. If they tend to use up-to-date versions of Firefox, Chrome, Opera, and Safari, then it would make sense to start using CSS grids once those browsers update. If your site serves a market sector that is tied to older browsers, however, it may not make sense yet. However, my suggestion is not to make assumptions based on how new specifications have been rolled out in browsers in the past. CSS Grid Layout is very different, in terms of the amount of time it has been in development, and the work of the various browser vendors to ensure that what ships works in the same way for everyone.