# Object Literal

*In plain English, an object literal is a comma-separated list of name-value pairs inside of curly braces.*

**Those values can be properties and functions. Here’s a snippet of an object literal with one property and one function.**

Let’s suppose we want to access the fullname inside the greet function instead of having to read it from a parameter. If we try to access it directly by doing something like this:
greet = (message)=> {
     console.log(message + " " + fullname + "!!");
}
We will get an undefined error. The fullname property isn’t visible directly.
However, you can create a function (e.g. getFullName())that accesses the fullname value using the this keyword, which is just the current object context.
If you’d like to read more about the this keyword, visit [w3](w3school.com) 
 >The function would look like this:
getFullName: () => {
     return this.fullname;
}
The greet function now would look like this:
greet: (message) => {
    console.log(message + " " + this.getFullName() + "!!");
}
All members of an object literal in JavaScript, both properties and functions, are public. The only place you can put private members is inside of a function.
For instance, I can add a private variable inside of the greet function to further customize the message. The function’s code now would look something like this.
(message, name) => {
    var customMessage = message + " " + name +
        "!!! It's nice to meet you."
    console.log(customMessage);
}
The customMessage variable is only visible in your function, but if it was placed outside of the function as a property, then it would be public.
Assigning an object literal to another variable only performs a shallow copy, which means you get the reference of the object instead of the actual value.
Let’s say I wanted to create another greeting object by using the greeting object we created earlier.
var anotherGreeting = greeting;
Doing this might look fine at first, but any change made to the copied object (anotherGreeting) will reflect in the original object (greeting).
<br>

var copiedGreeting = greeting;
copiedGreeting.fullname = "Michael Buble";
console.log(greeting.fullname + " == " + copiedGreeting.fullname);
**---------------output----------------**
Michael Buble == Michael Buble

You cannot copy an object literal without manually copying all the values.
Lastly, you can mutate members of an object literal, meaning you can add and remove them as you please.
If I need to remove the fullname property from the object and add other properties (e.g. first and last name), I can simply do this.
**delete** greeting["fullname"];
greeting.firstname = "Michael";
greeting.lastname = "Jackson";


>Object literal should be used if you want to create objects on the go with no intention of copying values to another object or maybe mapping one object to another.

## ***Document Object Model (DOM)***
- connects web pages to scripts or programming languages by representing the structure of a document—such as the HTML representing a web page—in memory. Usually it refers to JavaScript, even though modeling HTML, SVG, or XML documents as objects are not part of the core JavaScript language.

-The DOM represents a document with a logical tree. Each branch of the tree ends in a node, and each node contains objects. DOM methods allow programmatic access to the tree. With them, you can change the document's structure, style, or content.

**resources for DOM** [this blog](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model)