# HTML5 STORAGE
From your JavaScript code, you’ll access HTML5 Storage through the localStorage object on the global window object. Before you can use it, you shouldcheck for HTML5 Storage using ...

>function supports_html5_storage() {
  try {
    return 'localStorage' in window && window['localStorage'] !== null;
  } catch (e) {
    return false; }}
Instead of writing this function yourself, you can use Modernizr to detect support for HTML5 Storage.

if (Modernizr.localstorage) {
  // window.localStorage is available!
}*else*{
  // no native support for HTML5 storage :(
  // maybe try dojox.storage or a third-party solution
}

>**HTML5 Storage is based on named key/value pairs.**
 *You store data based on a named key, then you can retrieve that data with the same key. The named key is a string. The data can be any type supported by JavaScript, including strings, Booleans, integers, or floats. However, the data is actually stored as a string. If you are storing and retrieving anything other than strings, you will need to use functions like parseInt() or parseFloat() to coerce your retrieved data into the expected JavaScript datatype.*

 - *Calling setItem() with a named key that already exists will silently overwrite the previous value. Calling getItem() with a non-existent key will return null rather than throw an exception.*

- *Like other JavaScript objects, you can treat the localStorage object as an associative array. Instead of using the getItem() and setItem() methods, you can simply use square brackets.* 


[From](https://diveinto.html5doctor.com/storage.html)