# *Forms*
>Duckett Book _ Forms Uses

- Whenever you want to *collect* information from
  visitors you will need a form, which lives inside a
   <!-form> element.

- Information from a form is sent in name/value pairs.

- Each form control is given a name, and the text the
  *user types* in or the *values* of the options they select are sent to the server.

- HTML5 introduces new form elements which make it
easier for visitors to fill in forms.

# Lists_Tables_Forms
- In addition to the CSS properties covered in other chapters which work with the contents of all elements, there are several others that are specifically used to control the appearance of lists, tables, and forms.

- List markers can be given different appearances using the list-style-type and list-style image properties.

- Table cells can have different borders and spacing in different browsers, but there are properties you can use to control them and make them more consistent. 

- Forms are easier to use if the form controls are 
vertically aligned using CSS.

- Forms benefit from styles that make them feel more interactive.
>EXAPLE

background-color: #00CC33;
color: #FFFFFF;
cursor: pointer;}
.title {
float: left;
width: 160px;
clear: left;}
.submit {
width: 310px;
text-align: right;}
</ style>
</ head>
< body>
< h1>Poetry Workshops</ h1>
< p>We will be conducting a number of poetry workshops
and symposiums throughout the year.</ p>
< p >Please note that the following events are free to
members:< /p>
< ul>
< li>A Poetic Perspective</ l i>
< l i>Walt Whitman at War</ li >
< li >Found Poems and Outsider Poetry</ li >
</ u l>
< table > <tr class="head">
< th></ t h>
< th>New York</th>
< th>Chicago</th>
< th>San Francisco</th>
</ tr>
< tr>
< th>A Poetic Perspective</th>
< td>Sat, 4 Feb 2012<br />11am - 2pm</td>
< td>Sat, 3 Mar 2012<br />11am - 2pm</td>
< td>Sat, 17 Mar 2012<br />11am - 2pm</td>
<  /tr>
< t r class="even">
< t h>Walt Whitman at War</th>

# **EVENTS** In Js
- Events are the browser's way of indicating when
something has happened (such as when a page has
finished loading or a button has been clicked).

- Binding is the process of stating which event you are
waiting to happen, and which element you are waiting
for that event to happen upon.

- When an event occurs on an element, it can trigger a
JavaScript function. When this function then changes
the web page in some way, it feels interactive because
it has responded to the user.

- You can use event delegation to monitor for events
that happen on all of the children of an element.

- The most commonly used events are W3C DOM
events, although there are others in the HTMLS
specification as well as browser-specific events.

>Dukett book js